>> Woodruff: THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGES STILL LIE AHEAD IN
THE DEAL TO HALT IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, 15% OF
AMERICANS NOW RECEIVE HELP IN
THE FORM OF FOOD STAMPS, BUT
ADDITIONAL MONEY FOR THE PROGRAM
IS ENDING JUST AS THANKSGIVING
APPROACHES, WE PROFILE COLORADO
FAMILIES TRYING TO GET BY WITH
LESS.
>> $20 DOESN'T SOUND LIKE A LOT,
BUT IT IS A LOT.
IT'S A MEAL.
IT'S MILK.
IT'S MEAT.
IT'S VEGETABLES.
AND EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS.
>> Woodruff: ANDWITH,  PROMISES
OF TUNISIA'S REVOLUTION
UNFULFIED, LLPRESSURE MOUNTS TO
FIND A PATH FORWARD TO DEMOCRACY
IN THE BIRTHPLACE OF THE ARAB
SPRING.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: EUROPEAN SANCTIONS ON
IRAN COULD BE EASED AS EARLY AS
NEXT MONTH.
THAT WORD CAME TODAY FROM FRENCH
AND EUROPEAN UNION OFFICIALS.
IT FOLLOWS THE WEEKEND AGREEMENT
TO RELAX SOME SANCTIONS IN
RETURN FOR FREEZING MUCH OF
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
WE'LL LOOK AT THE DETAILS AND
THE WIDER IMPLICATIONS FOR THE
DDLEMI EAST RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR SUSAN
RICE WAS IN KABUL TODAY, URGING
AFGHAN PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI TO
SIGN A SECURITY DEAL WITHOUT
DELAY.
THE AGREEMENT WOULD GOVERN ANY
U.S. TROOPS WHO STAY TO TRAIN
AFGHAN UNITS, AFTER NATO COMBAT
FORCES WITHDRAW NEXT YEAR.
AFGHAN ELDERS ENDORSED THE PACT
SUNDAY, BUT KARZAI INSISTED
HE'LL LEAVE IT TO HIS SUCCESSOR
TO SIGN AFTER APRIL'S ELECTIONS.
A DATE AND PLACE FOR SYRIAN
PEACE TALKS ARE FINALLY SET:
JANUARY 22 IN GENEVA.
THE UNITED NATIONS ANNOUNCED IT
TODAY.
THE TALKS WILL BE THE FIRST
BETWEEN THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
AND OPPOSITION
SINCE THE CIVIL WAR BEGAN,
NEARLY THREE YEARS AGO.
U.N. SECRETARY GENERAL BAN KI
MOON URGED BOTH SIDES TO LAY THE
GROUNDWORK FOR PEACE.
>> EVEN THOUGH THE CONFERENCE
WILL TAKE PLACE IN ABOUT EIGHT
WEEKS, ALL PARTIES CAN AND MUST
BEGIN NOW TO TAKE STEPS TO HELP
THE GENEVA CONFERENCE SUCCEED,
INCLUDING TOWARD THE CESSATION
OF VIOLENCE, HUMANITARIAN
ACCESS, RELEASE OF DETAINEES AND
RETURN OF SYRIAN REFUGEES AND
INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE TO
THEIR HOMES.
>> Ifill: ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE
TALKS CAME AS THE FIGHTING RAGED
ON.
MORE THAN 160 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
OVER THE WEEKEND, AS REBELS
TRIED TO BREAK A GOVERNMENT
SIEGE OF A DAMASCUS SUBURB.
NEW FINDINGS ARE OUT, ON THE
MASS SHOOTINGS AT SANDY HOOK
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL IN NEWTOWN,
CONNECTICUT LAST DECEMBER.
THE MOTIVE REMAINS A MYSTERY,
BUT THE REPORT SHEDS NEW LIGHT
ON OTHER ASPECTS OF THE
KILLINGS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: THE LONG-AWAITED
REPORT CAME NEARLY A YEAR AFTER
THE SHOOTINGS THAT RAVAGED
THE TINY CONNECTICUT TOWN.
ON DECEMBER 14, 2012, ADAM LANZA
SHOT AND KILLED HIS MOTHER AT
THEIR HOME, THEN DROVE TO NEARBY
SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL,
WHERE HE'D ONCE ATTENDED.
THERE, HE KILLED 20 FIRST-
GRADERS AND SIX SCHOOL STAFFERS
BEFORE TURNING THE GUN ON
HIMSELF.
THE STATE ATTORNEY'S REPORT
CONCLUDES LANZA PLANNED THE
RAMPAGE ON HIS OWN AND TOLD NO
ONE IN ADVANCE.
IT FINDS HE HAD AN OBSESSION
WITH MASS KILLINGS, BUT IT
CONCLUDES THE ULTIMATE MOTIVE
FOR THE SANDY HOOK ATTACK MAY
NEVER BE KNOWN.
THE REPORT IS HEAVILY REDTED.AC
THAT'S PARTLY BECAUSE NEWTOWN
OFFICIALS HAVE LABORED TO
PROTECT THE PRIVACY OF THE
VICTIMS' FAMILIES AND HELP THE
COMMUNITY RECOVER.
HAT TINCLUDED A DECISION TO
DEMOLISH THE SCHOOL ITSELF-- A
MOVE WELCOMED BY MANY.
>> WE'RE A VERY STRONG COMMUNITY
AND WE'RE GOING TO OVERCOME
THIS.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON AND
THEY'RE GOING TO PUT UP ANOTHER
BEAUTIFUL SCHOOL AND WE'RE GOING
TO MOVE ON.
>> Brown: A FULLER ACCOUNT OF
THE SHOOTINGS MAY ULTIMATELY
COME FROM THE CONNECTICUT STATE
POLICE.
THERE'S NO RELEASE DATE FOR
THEIR REPORT.
>> Ifill: A BLAST OF ARCTIC
WEATHER SWEPT ACROSS THE U.S.
TODAY, WITH NEARLY A MONTH STILL
LL GO BEFORE WINTER  OFFICIAY
ARRIVES.
WHAT BEGAN AS AN ICE STORM IN
THE WEST MOVED EASTWARD,
DUMPING SLEET, FREEZING RAIN AND
SNOW IN ARKANSAS, OKLAHOMA AND
TEXAS.
THE SYSTEM IS BLAMED FOR THE
DEATHS OF AT LEAST TEN PEOPLE IN
TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS.
FORECASTS SHOW THE STORM
SWEEPING UP THE EAST COAST, JUST
AS THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY TRAVEL
BEGINS IN EARNEST.
IN THAILAND, THE PRIME MINISTER
INVOKED EMERGENCY LAW IN THE
FACE OF ESCALATING PROTESTS
AGAINST HER RULE.
FLOODED STREETS IN BANGKOK AND
OCCUPIED MAJOR MINTRIEISS.
HOURS LATER, IN A NATIONALLY
TELEVISED ADDRESS, PRIME
MINISTER YINGLUCK SHINAWATRA
SAID IT HAS TO STOP.
>> ( translated ): THE
PROTESTERS TODAY HAVE STAGED
MASS RALLIES AND SEIZED
GOVERNMENT OFFICES SUCH AS THE
FINANCE MINISTRY, BUDGET BUREAU,
FOREIGN MINISTRY AND PUBLIC
RELATIONS DEPARTMENT...
WHICH IS PREVENTING OFFICIALS
FROM DOING THEIR WORK AND
CAUSING TROUBLE TO PEOPLE IN A
WIDE AREA, AND AFFECTING THE
COUNTRY'S STABILITY.
>> Ifill: OPPONENTS SAY THE
PRIME MINISTER IS ACTUALLY A
PUPPET FOR HER BROTHER, A FORMER
PRIME MINISTER OUSTED BY THE
MILITARY IN 2006, AMID
CORRUPTION CHARGES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TRIED TO REFOCUS
ATTENTION ON IMMIGRATION REFORM
TODAY, BUT HIS MESSAGE WAS
MOMENTARILY DROWNED OUT.
THE PRESIDENT WAS SPEAKING IN
SAN FRANCISCO WHEN A MAN ON THE
STAGE BEHIND HIM BEGAN TO SHOUT
FOR AN END TO DEPORTATIONS AND
OTHERS JOINED IN.
>> YOU HAVE A-- A POWERFUL --
>> THAT'S WHY WE'RE DOING.
>> I NEED YOUR HELP.
>> OKAY.
>> WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO DO-- .
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT MANAGED
TO QUIET THE HECKLERS, AND URGED
THEM TO PUT THEIR
ENERGY INTO LOBBYING CONGRESS.
>> THE EASY WAY OUT IS TO TRY TO
YELL AND PRETEND LIKE I CAN DO
SOMETHING BY VIOLATING OUR LAWS.
AND WHAT I'M PROPOSING IS THE
HARDER PATH WHICH IS TO USE OUR
DEMOCRATIC PROCESSES TO ACHIEVE
THE SAME GOAL YOU WANT TO
ACHIEVE, BUT IT WON'T BE AS EASY
AS JUST SHOUTING.
>> Ifill: THE PROSPECTS FOR
QUICK ACTION ON SWEEPING
IMMIGRATION REFORM ARE DOUBTFUL
AS BEST.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS HAVE SAID THEY
WILL NOT HOLD ANY VOTES ON THE
ISSUE FOR THE REST OF THIS YEAR.
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS WERE
LARGELY UNCHANGED.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED SEVEN POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,072.
THE NASDAQ ROSE JUST UNDER THREE
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3994.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
GOING INSIDE THE SCIENCE, THE
POLITICS AND THE DIPLOMACY
BEHIND THE NUCLEAR DEAL WITH
IRAN; LIVING ON LESS AFTER CUTS
TO FOOD STAMPS; FOUR FICTIONAL
REPUBLICANS SHARE A HOUSE IN
GARY TRUDEAU'S NEW WEB SERIES
AND THE PUSH FOR DEMOCRACY IN
THE BIRTHPLACE OF THE ARAB
SPRING.
>> Woodruff: AMIDST A CHORUS OF
COMPLAINTS FROM ISRAEL, SOME
ARAB GULF STATES AND MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
OTHER ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
WENT OUT TODAY TO TRY TO SELL
THE INTERIM DEAL REACHED WITH
IRAN OVER ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
THE PRESIDENT TOOK TIME AT THE
START OF AN IMMIGRATION REFORM
EVENT IN CALIFORNIA TO MAKE A
PITCH FOR THE IRAN DEAL STRUCK
IN THE WEE HOURS OF SUNDAY
MORNING:
>> IF IRAN SEIZES THIS
OPPORTUNITY AND CHOOSES TO JOIN
THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY THEN WE CAN
BEGIN TO CHIP AWAY AT THE
MISTRUST THAT'S EXISTED FOR MANY
MANY YEARS BETWEEN OUR TWO
NATIONS.
NONE OF THAT'S GOING TO BE EASY,
HUGE CHALLENGES REMAIN.
>> Woodruff: BUT TODAY TALK
FOCUSED ON THE NUTS AND BOLTS OF
THE SIX-MONTH PACT.
AND THE  INITIAL SANCTIONS
RELIEF SECURED IN SUNDAY'S DEAL
HAD SHOPPERS AND MERCHANTS
BUZZING IN TEHRAN'S GRAND BAZAAR
TODAY.
>> ( translated ): PEOPLE HAVE
MORE MOTIVATION TO BUY.
THERE IS MORE CONFIDENCE AMONG
SHOPPERS.
>> Woodruff: IRAN'S ECONOMY HAS
BEEN CRIPPLED BY COMPREHENSIVE
INTERNATIONAL SANCTIONS
FOR YEARS, BUT TODAY, FRANCE'S
FOREIGN MINISTER SAID THE
EUROPEAN UNION COULD BEGIN
EASING ITS PENALTIES NEXT MONTH,
INCLUDING, MAINLY, ACCESS TO
FROZEN OIL REVENUES.
HE ALSO SAID ALL MOVES ARE
CONDITIONAL.
>> VIGILANCE GOES IN BOTH
DIRECTIONS.
I MEAN THAT TEHRAN WILL ALSO BE
VIGILANT ON US STICKING TO OUR
COMMITMENTS.
FOR INSTANCE, WE'VE COMMITTED TO
EASE A CERTAIN NUMBER OF
SANCTIONS.
IT'S REVERSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: THAT AIR OF CAUTION
PERMEATED TALK THROUGHOUT
EUROPE.
IN LONDON, BRITISH FOREIGN
SECRETARY WILLIAM HAGUE
EXPLAINED THE DEAL TO
PARLIAMENT, AND HE URGED ISRAEL
AND OTHERS TO GIVE THE AGREEMENT
A CHANCE.
>> WE WOULD DISCOURAGE ANYBODY
IN THE WORLD, INCLUDING ISRAEL,
FROM TAKING ANY STEPS THAT WOULD
UNDERMINE THIS AGREEMENT AND WE
WILL MAKE THAT VERY CLEAR TO ALL
CONCERNED.
>> Woodruff: ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAHU HAD
DENOUNCED THE DEAL AS A HISTORIC
MISTAKE AND SAID HIS GOVERNMENT
IS NOT BOUND BY IT.
TODAY HE WAS NO LESS DIRECT
AFTER SPEAKING TO PRESIDENT
OBAMA LAST NIGHT.
>> ( translated ): IT IS A BAD
DEAL AS IT TAKES THE PRESSURE
OFF IRAN WITHOUT RECEIVING
ANYTHING CONCRETE IN RETURN.
AND THE IRANIANS, WHO ARE
LAUGHING ALL THE WAY TO THE
BANK, HAVE SAID THEMSELVES THAT
THIS DEAL HAS SAVED THEM.
THIS AGREEMENT MUST BRING ONE
RESULT, DISMANTLING IRAN'S
NUCLEAR WEAPONS CAPABILITIES.
>> Woodruff: IN FACT, THOUGH,
THAT IS NOT ON THE TABLE IN THIS
SIX-MONTH, FIRST-STAGE
AGREEMENT.
INSTEAD, IRAN AGREED TO
NEUTRALIZE ITS STOCKPILE OF
URANIUM THAT'S ALREADY ENRICHED
TO 20%, A BIG STEP TOWARD
REACHING WEAPONS-GRADE; STOP
ENRICHING ANY URANIUM BEYOND 5%
PURITY; STOP INSTALLING NEW
CENTRIFUGES OR BUILDING NEW
FACILITIES TO ENRICH URANIUM AND
GRANT NEW AND GREATER ACCESS TO
INTERNATIONAL INSPECTORS.
IRAN ALSO AGREED TO HALT WORK AT
ITS ARAK PLUTONIUM FACILITY.
THE DEAL PRODUCED A HERO'S
WELCOME FOR IRANIAN NEGOTIATORS
AS THEY RETURNED TO TEHRAN LAST
NIGHT.
BUT A MAJOR CORE ISSUE REMAINS
UNRESOLVED, WHETHER IRAN HAS A
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHT TO ENRICH
URANIUM.
THE U.S. SAYS IT DOES NOT;
IRAN'S FOREIGN MINISTER SAYS IT
DOES.
SO, DOES THIS DEAL DO ENOUGH TO
CONTAIN IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM
AS NEGOTIATORS ATTEMPT A FINAL
AGREEMENT?
WE HAVE TWO VIEWS:  JEFFREY
LEWIS IS DIRECTO TA NON-PROLIFEN
PROGRAM  AT THE MONTEREY
INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES.
AND GREGORY JONES IS A SENIOR
RESEARCHER AT THE NON
PROLIFERATION EDUCATION CENTER.
>> WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
JEFFREY LEWIS, TO YOU FIRST,
YOU BELIEVE THIS IS A GOOD
DEAL.
EXPLAIN WHY YOU THINK IT
STOPS OR BEGINS TO STOP IRAN
FROM ENRICHING URANIUM TO A
WEAPONS GRADE, A PLACE WHERE
IT CAN USE IT FOR WEAPONS?
>> WELL, THE FIRST THING TO
NOTE IS IT IS AN INTERIM
DEAL.
AND SO THE QUESTION IS, IS
THIS DEAL GOOD ENOUGH TO
KEEP TALKING?
OR IS IT WORTH BLOWING UP
AND JUST GOING OUR SEPARATE
WAYS?
BY DEFINITION, THE DEAL
PREVENTS IRAN FROM ENRICHING
ABOVE FIVE PERCENT, AND IT
CAPS THE SIZE OF IRAN'S
STOCKPILE OF ENRICHED
URANIUM.
THE REASON YOU NEED AN
INTERIM DEAL IS BECAUSE IF
WE ARE GOING TO BE TALKING
TO THE IRANIANS WE DIDN'T
NEED TO BE TALKING TO THEM
WHILE THEY WERE CONTINUING
TO ENRICH URANIUM AND EXPAND
THEIR SYSTEM.
IN EXCHANGE THERE IS A
TEMPORARY AND REVERSIBLE
REDUCTION OF SANCTIONS SO
THAT THE IRAN YEN SIDE COMES
HOME WITH SOMETHING.
BECAUSE-- ALTHOUGH I THINK
IN THE YONTED STATES WE SEEM
TO HAVE FORGOTTEN UNTILMENT
USUALLY WHEN YOU MAKE DEALS
INTERNATIONALLY BOTH SIDES
GET SOMETHING.
>> SO GREGORY JONES, HOW DO
YOU SEE THIS QUESTION OF
ENRICHING.
IRAN'S CAPABILITY OF
ENRICHING URANIUM?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, WE
ARE STILL PERMITTING IRAN TO
ENRICH URANIUM.
ITS STOCK PIFL ENRICHED
URANIUM IS CONTINUING TO
GROW.
A NUMBER OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS,
THEY WILL BE ABLE TO PRODUCE
FOR THIS IS ALSO CONTINUING
TO GROW IN THE NEXT SIX
MONTHS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA SAYS THAT
WE'VE CUT OFF IRAN'S PATH TO
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
IN FACT, WE HAVEN'T.
IT'S STILL THERE AND
VIRTUALLY EVERYONE AGREES
THAT THE TIME WOULD REQUIRE
IRAN TO ACQUIRE A NUCLEAR
WEAPONS IS VIRTUALLY
UNCHANGED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
FURTHERMORE, THIS AGREEMENT
IS, IN FACT, SOMETHING OF A
DISASTER BECAUSE IT ACTUALLY
DOES VALIDATE IRAN'S RIGHT
TO ENRICH.
EVEN THOUGH SECRETARY KERRY
SAYS IT DOESN'T.
IT SEEMS TO PLAINLY DO SO.
AND THIS IS A DISASTER NOT
ONLY WITH REGARD TO IRAN,
BUT WITH REGARD TO
NONPROLIFERATION WORLDWIDE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, BEFORE WE
GET TO THAT BROADER QUESTION
OF THE RIGHT TO ENRICH, WHAT
ABOUT WHAT MR. JONES JUST
SAID.
LET ME COME BACK TO YOU,
JEFFREY LEWIS.
BASICALLY HE'S SAYING THAT
IRAN CAN STILL MAKE-- CAN
STILL ENRICH, CAN STILL, IN
ESENCE, MAKE A WEB.
>> WELL, IF THE UNITED
STATES HAD AGREED TO THE
DEAL THAT GREG IS SUGGESTING
THAT WE A HE GOOD TO, IT
WOULD BE A BAD DEAL.
BUT IT'S NOT THE DEAL WE
AGREED TO.
IN TERMS OF ENRICHMENT, IRAN
IS ALLOWED TO CONTINUE
RUNNING THE CENTRIFUGES AND
ENRICHING URANIUM BUT THE
SIZE OF THE STOCKPILE CAN'T
INCREASE.
SO IT HAS TO TAKE WHATEVER
IT PRODUCES AND CONVERT IT
INTO A FORM THAT'S NOT
WEAPONS-USABLE.
HE MENTIONED THE FACT THAT
THERE WOULD BE NO INCREASE
IN THE LENGTH OF TIME THAT
IT WOULD TAKE IRAN TO
ACQUIRE A NUCLEAR WEAPON,
AGAIN, IT'S JUST-- IT'S NOT
TRUE.
ONE OF THE PROVISIONS IS
THAT FOR DAILY ACCESS OF THE
IAEA TO IRAN'S NUCLEAR
FACILITY.
SO IT WOULD BE MUCH HARDER
FOR THE IRANIANS IF THEY
DECIDED TO MAKE A BREAK FOR
A NUCLEAR WEAPON.
SO I THINK ONE OF THE
BIGGEST PROBLEMS THE
PRESIDENT IS GOING TO HAVE
IN SELLING THIS DEAL IS
DEALING WITH WHAT REALLY
AMOUNTS TO A TREMENDOUS
AMOUNT OF DISINFORMATION
ABOUT ITS TERMS.
>> Woodruff: GREGORY JOPS,
YOU WANT TO RESPOND TO THOSE
TWO POINTS?
>> I'M AFRAID HE'S
INCORRECT.
ONE CANNOT CONVERT ENRICHED
URANIUM INTO A FORM THAT
CAN'T BE CONVERTED INTO
WEAPONSMENT I MEAN THEY TALK
ABOUT CONVERTING THE
ENRICHED URANIUM TO OXIDE
BUT IT'S EASY ENOUGH TO
CONVERT THAT BACK.
FOR THE 20% THAT WAS A
PROBLEM BECAUSE OF CRITALITY
ISSUES T ISN'T FOR 3.5%.
SO THEY CAN CERTAINLY DO
THAT.
THEY CAN CONTINUE TO ENRICH.
THE SAFEGUARDS ONLY DO US
ANY GOOD IF THEY THINK THE
U.S. WILL TAKE ACTION ON IT
AND GIVE ENTHE PRESIDENT'S
CHOKING WHEN SYRIAN-- SYRIA
USED CHEMICAL WEAPONS BACK
IN AUGUST, I DON'T KNOW WHAT
WE THINK'S GOING TO HAPPEN,
EVEN IF THE IAEA WERE TO
DETECT SOMETHING.
>> Woodruff: JEFF ROW LEWIS,
TALKING ABOUT TWO DIFFERENT
AGREEMENTS.
>> WELL, I MEAN, I THINK A
LOT OF THIS IS JUST SORT
OF-- YOU HEARD THE REFERENCE
TO THE PRESIDENT'S CHOKE.
I MEAN, THE FACT IS THE DEAL ARY
PLAIN TO SEE.
AND IF YOU WERE TO LOOK AT
THEM, YOU WOULD SEE THERE
ARE PLENTY OF SAFEGUARDS AND
MEASURES.
WE'RE TO THE GOING TO
RESOLVE IT ON TV.
BUT I THINK BASICALLY BOILS
DOWN TO THIS, WHICH IS,
THERE WAS NO MEANINGFUL
CONSTRAINT ON IRAN'S NUCLEAR
WEAPONS PROGRAM BEFORE WE
HAD THIS DEAL.
AND SO THE ARGUMENT AMOUNTS
TO WE SHOULD BLOW UP WHAT WE
HAVE, AND LET IRAN GO BACK
TO ENRICHING URANIUM ON
UNCONSTRAINED BASIS ON THE
BELIEF THAT THERE IS SOMEHOW
SOME BETTER, AMAZING DEAL
OUT THERE.
AND YOU KNOW, A LOT OF
PEOPLE MAKING THAT ARGUMENT
HAD URGED THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION TO GET A
BETTER DEAL AND THEY DIDN'T.
>> Woodruff: SO GREGORY
JONES, YOU HEAR WHAT HE'S
SAYING.
I MEAN, HE'S SAYING THIS, AT
LEAST, BEGINS TO PUT THE
BRAKES ON WHAT-- ON WHERE
IRAN WAS HEADED.
>> WELL, AND THAT WOULD BE A
USEFUL THING.
AND THERE ARE SOME USEFUL
THINGS IN THE AGREEMENT.
IN PARTICULAR OUR GETTING TO
INSPECT THEIR CENTRIFUGE
PRODUCTION FACILITIES.
>> Woodruff: I'M SORRY, IT
LOOKS LIKE WE'VE LOST ONE OF
OUR GUESTS OR BOTH OF OUR
GUESTS?
ALL RIGHT, LET ME COME BACK
TO YOU.
>> I'M HERE.
>> Woodruff: MY APOLOGIES.
JEFFREY, LEWIS, I
MEAN-- MAYBE I HAVE YOU BOTH
BACK.
BUT JEFFREY LEWIS, LET ME
COME TO YOU NOW.
THIS QUESTION OF INSPECTORS,
HOW CONFIDENT ARE YOU THAT
THE INTERNATIONAL INSPECTORS
ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO GET
IN THERE AND VERIFY THAT
IRAN IS DOING WHAT IT SAYS
IT'S DOING?
>> WELL, LOOK, THERE'S AN
EASY PROBLEM IN IRAN AND A
HARD PROBLEM.
THE EASY PROBLEM IS
VERIFYING THE DECLARED
FACILITIES.
AND SO HAVING DAILY ACCESS
TO THOSE FACILITIES I THINK
GIVES ONE A VERY HIGH LEVEL
OF ASSURANCE.
THE HARD PROBLEM IN IRAN IS
ALWAYS GOING TO BE THE
POSSIBILITY OF A COVERT
FACILITY, A FACILITY ONE
CAN'T SEE.
AND SO THE WAY THAT ONE
NEEDS TO ADDRESS THAT IS BY
HAVING A MUCH BROADER AND
MORE COMPREHENSIVE ACCESS TO
THE IRANIAN PROGRAM.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, WHAT GREG
MENTIONED WAS ACCESS TO THE
WORKSHOP WHERE THE IRANIANS
BUILD THE CENTRIFUGES.
RIGHT NOW THE IRANIANS CAN
BUILD AS MANY CENTRIFUGES AS
THEY WANT AND IF THEY SHOW
UP, THE INSPECTORS SEE THEM.
IF THEY SHOW UP IN A
MOUNTAIN SOMEWHERE, IN A
TUNNEL, WE DON'T SEE THEM.
SO WE ARE ABLE TO GET INSIDE
THOSE WORKSHOPS AND SEE HOW
MANY CENTRIFUGES THEY'RE
MAKING.
AND IN FACT, THE DEAL
CONTAINS A CONSTRAINT ON HOW
MANY THEY CAN MAKE.
IT HELPS DEAL WITH THAT
SECOND HARDER PROBLEM OF
SITES WE DON'T YET KNOW
ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: GREGORY JONES,
WE HAVE YOU BACK.
SORRY WERE THAT.
BUT WHAT ABOUT THE POINTS
THAT WE JUST HEARD FROM
JEFFREY LEWIS.
>> AS I SAID, ITS DEAL HAS
SOME USEFUL FEATURES.
BUT IT'S GIVING UP THIS
MAJOR POINT THAT IT IS
AGREED THAT IRAN CAN HAVE
ENRICHMENT.
ONCE YOU'VE DONE THAT, WE
ARE LOOKING AT A VERY
LONG-TERM PROBLEM, NOT ONLY
WITH IRAN, BUT WITH
NONPROLIFERATION WORLDWIDE.
>> Woodruff: JEFFREY LEWIS,
FINAL WORD.
>> WELL, IT'S A GOOD
IDEAMENT I DON'T KNOW IF
ANYBODY HAD NOTICED BUT IRAN
DOES HAVE ENRICHMENT AND
THEY DO HAVE CENTRIFUGES.
AND WE'VE TOLD THEM FOR
ABOUT TEN YEARS THAT THEY
CAN'T AND THEY DON'T STOP.
IF WE WANT THEM TO STOP, WE
HAVE TO HAVE A DELL.
THIS IS THE DEAL ON THE
TABLE, WE SHOULD TAKE IT.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT,
GENTLEMEN, WE'LL LEAVE IT
THERE.
JEFFREY LEWIS AND GREGORY
JONES, WE APPRECIATE IT
>> Ifill: NOW TO THE DIPLOMACY
BEHIND THE GENEVA DEAL, AND ITS
POTENTIAL IMPACT IN THE REGION.
WE TURN TO:
NICHOLAS BURNS, FORMER U.S.
UNDERSECRETARY OF STATE FOR
POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
HE NOW TEACHES AT HARVARD
UNIVERSITY'S KENNEDY SCHOOL OF
GOVERNMENT AND IS THE SENIOR
FOREIGN AFFAIRS COLUMNIST FOR
GLOBALPOST.
AND WALTER RUSSELL MEAD, EDITOR
AT LARGE OF THE "AMERICAN
INTEREST" MAGAZINE AND A
PROFESSOR OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND
HUMANITIES AT BARD COLLEGE.
NICK BURNS, WHAT DID WE SEE,
A TEMPORARY PAUSE ON ITS WAY
TO-- HERE?
>> WELL, IT'S VERY HARD TO
SAY.
THE VALUE IS IT IS AN
INTERIM DEAL.
IT STOPS THE IRANIANS IN
PLACE, THE FIRST TIMES
THAT'S HAPPENED.
IT GIVES TIME AND SPACE FOR
DIPLOMACY.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS A BIG
ISSUE FOR AN AMERICAN
NATIONAL SECURITY IN 2014.
CAN WE STOP IRAN THROUGH
NEGOTIATIONS, THROUGH SOME
DIPLOMATIC SETTLEMENT OR ARE
WE GOING TO HAVE TO USE
FORCE AT THE END OF THE DAY.
AND OF COURSE THE PRESIDENT,
I THINK QUITE RIGHTLY, HAS
SAID BEFORE WE CONSIDER
FORCE, WE'VE GOT TO CONSIDER
THIS DIPLOMATIC OPTION.
I THINK YOU HAVE TO RESOLVE
THE NUCLEAR PROBLEM WITH
IRAN BEFORE YOU CAN REALLY
SAY IT'S A NEW DAY IN THE
RELATIONSHIP.
WE HAVEN'T HAD A
RELATIONSHIP WITH THEM.
DIPLOMATICALLY FOR 34 YEARS.
SINCE THE JIMMY CARTER
ADMINISTRATION.
IT'S A RARE DIPLOMATIC
OPENING AND EVEN IF WE
RESOLVE A NUCLEAR PROBLEM
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO TALK
TO THEM ABOUT THEIR SUPPORT
FOR HEZBOLLAH AND HAMAS,
ABOUT THEIR OPPOSITION TO
WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO DO IN
AFGHANISTAN AND IRAQ.
THERE IS A SEA OF
DIFFICULTIES IN THIS
RELATIONSHIP.
AND IT REQUIRES PATIENCE,
AND IT REQUIRES A LOT OF
DISCUSSION.
AND THAT IS I THINK ONE.
VALUES OF THE GENEVA DEAL
REACHED OVER THE WEEKEND.
WE NOW HAVE THE TIME TO HAVE
THOSE DISCUSSIONS WITH THE
IRANIAN GOVERNMENT.
>> Ifill: WELL, WALTER
RUSSELL MAETED, AS WE JUST
HEARD IN JUDY'S CONVERSATION,
THERE WERE A LOT OF PRETTY
FUNDAMENTAL DISAGREEMENTS
ABOUT WHETHER THE NUCLEAR
PART, THE SCIENCE PART OF
THIS IS EVEN WORKABLE.
DOES THE SCIENCE HAVE TO
WORK FOR THE DIPLOMACY TO
STICK?
>> WELL, I'M ACTUALLY MUCH
MORE WORRIED ABOUT THE
DIPLOMACY THAN THE SCIENCE,
MAYBE BECAUSE I KNOW MORE
ABOUT DIPLOMACY THAN I KNOW
ABOUT SCIENCE.
BUT I THINK, YOU KNOW, AND
THE PROBLEM IS TO REALLY GET
TO AN AGREEMENT THAT CAN
STICK WITH IRAN, THERE ARE
TWO THINGS THAT WE NEED TO
BE DOING.
ONE IS ADDRESSING THE
NUCLEAR ISSUE AND FINDING A
WAY TO TALK ABOUT THAT IN
SOME KIND OF NEGOTIATING
FRAMEWORK.
AND THE OTHER IS TO SORT OF
DEAL WITH IRAN'S REGIONAL
AMBITIONS.
I THINK IRAN RIGHT NOW FEELS
IT'S ON A ROLL IN THE
REGION.
IRAN AND RUSSIA WERE MORE OR
LESS ABLE TO FRUSTRATE U.S.
POLICY IN SYRIA.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT HOW ASSAD
MUST GO.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT RED
LINES.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY,
HE'S STILL THERE AND IF
ANYTHING, AS THE REBELS
DIVIDE AND THE SITUATION ON
THE GROUND GETS MESSIER,
ASSAD SEEMS TO BE GAINING
GROUND.
HEZBOLLAH IS ALSO DOING VERY
WELL.
WHEN YOU PUT ALL THAT
TOGETHER, IT LOOKS TO THE
IRANIANS AS IF THEY'RE
DEALING FROM STRENGTH.
I'M NOT SURE THAT THAT IS
THE MOOD THAT IS GOING TO
GET THEM TO MAKE THE KINDS
OF CONCESSIONS THAT WE
ACTUALLY DO NEED ON THE
NUCLEAR ISSUE.
>> THAT'S A QUESTION,
NICHOLAS BURNS.
WE SAW THE PICTURES OF THE
KIND OF PARTYING IN THE
STREETS IN TEHRAN AS THE
NEGOTIATORS RETURNED.
ARE THEY DEALING WITH
STRENGTH NOW HAVING WORKED
OUT THIS DEAL?
>> I'M NOT SO SURE.
THERE IS A SENSE OF
JUBILATION IN IRAN BECAUSE
THERE'S GOING TO BE
TEMPORARY LIMITED RELIEF
FROM SANCTIONS.
AND THEY'VE BEEN HIT VERY
HARD BY SANCTIONSMENT BUT
THE REAL PROBLEM HERE IS
THAT THE IRANIANS ARE IN A
RELATIVELY WEAK POSITION
VIS-A-VIS THE UNITED STATES
IN EUROPE.
WE HAVE RETAINED AS YOU
HEARD SECRETARY KERRY SAY
THE REALLY CRIPPLING
SANCTION.
THE OIL & GAS SANCTION.
WE'RE TO THE GOING TO LIFT
THEM UNTIL WE I HAVE A
LONG-TERM PERMANENT DEAL AND
AS YOU KNOW, THE UNITED
STATES HAS REMINDED THE
IRANIANS THE LAST FEW DAYS,
AS HAS ISRAEL THAT BOTH OF
US RETAIN THE RIGHT TO USE
FORCE SHOULD NEGOTIATIONS
NOT BE SUCCESSFUL AND SHOULD
IRAN THEN DRIVE TOWARDS A
NUCLEAR WEAPONS CAPABILITY.
SO I THINK THE IRANIANS HAVE
TO RESPECT THAT.
AND THAT'S WHY WE NEEDED
THIS TIME AND SPACE FOR
NEGOTIATIONS.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT NOW IS
GOING TO HAVE TO FOCUS ON
THIS, PROBABLY AS HIS NUMBER
ONE NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUE
FOR THE NEXT FOUR OR FIVE
MONTHS.
WE'RE GOING TO NEED A LOT OF
HELP FROM OUR ALLIES, THE
FRENCH AND THE BRITISH
ESPECIALLY.
BUT THE PRESIDENT HAS TO
OPERATE NOW ON MULTIPLE
LEVELS.
HE'S NEGOTIATING WITH THE
IRANIANS AN ALL THOSE OTHER
COUNTRIES.
HE'S TRYING TO ESTABLISH A
SEPARATE BILATERAL CHALLENGE
CHANNELED TO THE IRANIANS
THAT WE HAVEN'T HAD IN 34
YEARS.
HE'S ALSO GOT TO NEGOTIATE,
THE PRESIDENT, WITH THE
ISRAELIS AND SAUDIS WHO
OPPOSE WHAT HE'S DOING AND
HE'S GOT TO NEGOTIATE WITH
CONGRESS THAT WANTS TO SLAP
ON MORE SANCTIONS AT A TIME
WHEN THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T
WANT THAT.
THIS IS ABOUT AS CHALLENGING
AS IT GETS.
>> Ifill: WAY, YOU-- YEAH,
YOU JUST PUT A LOT ON HIS
PLATE.
WALTER RUSSELL MEAD, AS HARD
AS IT WAS TO GET TO THIS
TEMPORARY SIX MONTH PAUSE,
HOW MUCH HARDER WILL IT BE
FOR THIS ADMINISTRATION OR
ANY ADMINISTRATION TO TACKLE
ALL THE THINGS NICHOLAS
BURNS JUST TALKED ABOUT?
>> I THINK IT'S VERY HARD.
THAT'S ONE OF THE REASONS
THAT I'M WORRIED ABOUT THE
DIPLOMATIC SITUATION.
YOU KNOW, I THINK TO THE
SAUDIS RIGHT NOW, WHAT IT
LOOKS LIKE IS HAPPENING IS
THE U.S. IS OFFERING IRAN A
KIND OF A FERTILE CRESCENT
FOR NUKES DEAL.
THAT WE ARE MORE OR LESS
DROPPING ANY SERIOUS
OPPOSITION TO IRAN'S
CONSOLIDATING POWER IN IRAQ,
IN SYRIA AND LEBANON.
AND MEANWHILE WE'RE SORT OF
WORKING TOWARDS A NUCLEAR
AGREEMENT THAT MAY OR MAY
NOT PAN OUT.
I THINK FOR THE SAUDIS
THAT'S NOT JUST A LITTLE BIT
UNACCEPTABLE.
THAT IS RADICALLY AND
TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE.
AND AN EXISTENTIAL THREAT.
NOW THEY MAY OR MAY NOT BE
ABLE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
IT.
BUT ITS-- YOUR LIFE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST IS USUALLY NOT
VERY EASY WHEN THE SAUDIS
ARE FUNDAMENTALLY UNHAPPY
WITH YOU.
AND I SHOULD SAY THAT, YOU
KNOW, WE HAVEN'T EVEN GOTTEN
TO ISRAEL WHICH IS ANOTHER
ISSUE.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK
NICHOLAS BURNS ABOUT ISRAEL,
BECAUSE AT THE VERY LEAST IT
SEEMS THIS DEAL MIGHT TIE
THEIR HANDS FOR A SHORT TIME
AT LEAST, IN THE ABILITY TO
JUST UNILATERALLICALLY
STRIKE AGAINST IRAN, IS THAT
POSSIBLE?
>> I THINK IT'S
INCONCEIVABLE THAT PRIME
MINISTER NETANYAHU WOULD
LAUNCH A MILITARY STRIKE ON
IRAN WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA
AND SECRETARY KERRY ARE AT
THE NEGOTIATING TABLE.
I DON'T THINK THE ISRAELIS
WILL DO THAT.
BUT THEY'RE VERY UNHAPPY
WITH THIS DEAL.
AND ON THE ONE HAND YOU HAVE
TO BE SYMPATHETIC TO THE
ISRAELIS BECAUSE EVEN JUST
LAST WEEKT SUPREME LEADER OF
IRAN SAID THE MOST
REPREHENSIBLE THINGS ABOUT
THE STATE OF ISRAEL.
THE IRANIANS HAVE NOT MADE
THEIR PEACE WITH THE STATE
OF ISRAEL AND THEY HAVE TO
TAKE THAT SERIOUSLY.
BUT THIS DEAL, I WOULD SAY,
AS SECRETARY KERRY DID OVER
THE WEEKEND, IT REALLY ISN'T
A LONG-TERM INTEREST OF
ISRAEL TO SEE SECESSION AND
TO SEE IF THERE IS A
POSSIBILITY OF A LONG-TERM A
EMGROTE.
I THINK WE HAVE TO AGREE TO
DISAGREE WITH THE ISRAELIS
BUT MANAGING THAT PROBLEM IS
GOING TO TAKE A LOT OF TIME
BY BOTH THE PRESIDENT AND
SECRETARY KERRY.
THE ISRAELI AND SAUDI
PROBLEM.
AND GWEN, I DON'T THINK THE
PRESIDENT IS ACQUIESCING IN
IRANNIAN POLICY IN SIR WHY
AND LEBANON.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY TO STOP
THEM FROM BECOMING A NUCLEAR
WEAPONS POWER BUT WE'RE
GOING HAVE A BIG ARGUMENT
WITH THE IRANIANS ON WHAT
THEY ARE DOING REGIONALLY.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK BUT THE
SANCTIONS, THERE WAS A AN
ARGUMENT THE WHITE HOUSE
MAKES THAT THE SANCTIONS ARE
WHAT BROUGHT THE IRANIANS TO
THE TABLE.
IF THAT'S TRUE, WOULDN'T
MORE SANCTIONS WHICH SOME
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ARE
THREATENING MAKE THEM EVEN
MORE SERIOUS?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, IT'S
POSSIBLE.
BUT I THINK WE SHOULD NOT
OVERESTIMATE HOW CRIPPLING
THE SANKS HAVE BEEN.
YOU KNOW, NOT SO MUCH ON THE
IRANIAN ECONOMY BUT IF IRAN
WAS REALLY BROKE IT WOULDN'T
HAVE BEEN ABLE TO FUNNEL ALL
THAT MONEY TO ASSAD AND
HEZBOLLAH DURING THIS CIVIL
WAR.
I DON'T THINK IRAN IS DOWN
TO SCRAPING, YOU KNOW,
LOOKING BEHIND THE SOFA
CUSHONS FOR THE LAST FEW
NICKELS AND DIMES.
AGAIN, I THINK WE ARE
OVERESTIMATING THE DEGREE TO
WHICH WE'VE COERCED IRAN
INTO MAKING, INTO A POSITION
WHERE HE HAS NO CHOICE BUT
MAKE THE KINDS OF
CONCESSIONS WE'RE LOOKING
FOR.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S THE WAY
THEY SEE IT.
I DON'T THINK IT'S THE WAY
OTHER PEOPLE IN THE REGION
SEE IT.
AND IF THAT'S TRUE, WE'RE
LIKELY TO HAVE A PRETTY
STORMY PERIOD OF
NEGOTIATIONS AHEAD.
>> Ifill: WELL, LET'S TALK
ABOUT THE NEXT STORMY
PERIOD.
BECAUSE TODAY OR THIS
WEEKEND WE HEARD THAT
THEY'RE GOING BACK TO THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE OVER SYRIA
IN GENEVA.
WE'VE ALSO HEARD THAT
THE-- IN AFGHANISTAN WITH
SOME RESISTANCE PERHAPS ON
TIMING FROM THE PRESIDENT-- HAVE
AGREED TO THE WITHDRAWAL
PACT THIS DEAL THAT HAS BEEN
SIGNED.
AND NOW WE HAVE THESE
NEGOTIATIONS ONGOING
INVOLVING IRAN.
IS THAT SOMETHING NICHOLAS
BURNS, THAT IS GOING TO
CHANGE THE ENTIRE FOCUS OF
THIS ADMINISTRATION AS IT
ENTERS THE NEXT KIND OF
CRITICAL SIX MONTHS?
>> WELL, AND THERE IS ALSO
THE ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN
NEGOTIATIONS WITH SECRETARY
KERRY IS CONSUMED BY.
>> THAT TOO.
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK THE
ADMINISTRATION CORRECTLY
SEES OUR LONGEST TERM VITAL
INTEREST TO BE IN ASIA AND
WANTS TO PIVOT TO ASIA BUT
IT REALLY CAN'T RIGHT NOW
BECAUSE OF WHAT YOU JUST
SAID.
THESE ARE CRISIS THAT HAVE
TO BE DEALT WITH NOW.
I THINK THERE IS THE
BANDWIDTH WITHIN THE
ADMINISTRATION TO DEAL WITH
ALL OF THEM SIMULTANEOUSLY
BUT IT'S GOING TO REQUIRE AN
EXTRAORDINARY FOCUS ON THIS
REGION.
THE MIDDLE EAST IS STILL THE
PLACE.
WHERE THE UNITED STATES HAS
TO BE DIRECTED DAY-BY-DAY.
I DO THINK OF ALL THE ISSUES
YOU MENTIONED, GWEN, THE
IRAN ISSUE IS A PRIORITY.
THEY'RE ALL IMPORTANT.
BUT THAT'S THE ONE WHERE THE
UNITED STATES CANNOT AFFORD
TO LET IRAN BECOME A NUCLEAR
WEAPONS POWER.
WE HAVE A CHANCE NOW, A
REQUIRE DIPLOMATIC OPENING.
I AGREE WITH WALTER.
THIS IS GOING TO BE
EXTRAORDINARILY DIFFICULT.
BUT NOT IMPOSSIBLE.
AND THAT'S WHY THE
PRESIDENT'S RIGHT TO TAKE
THIS OPENING AND THAT'S WHY
THIS DEAL MAKES SENSE FOR
THE U.S.
>> WALTER MEADE, DOES THIS
ADMINISTRATION HAVE THE
BANDWIDTH?
>> WE'RE GOING TO FIND OUT.
BUT I THINK WE SHOULD ALSO
MENTION THAT AT THE SAME
TIME WE'RE SEEING THE MIDDLE
EAST IN TROUBLE.
WE'RE SEEING IN ASIA WE HAVE
CHINA DECLARING ITS NEW AIR
DEFENSE RESTRICTIONS NEAR
THOSE DISPUTED ISLANDS.
WE'VE SEEN THE EUROPEAN
UNION FAIL TO GET UKRAINE IN
TO AN ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT
WHICH IS A BIG WIN FOR
RUSSIA.
WE NEED TO LOOK THE AT IRAN,
RUSSIA AND CHINA.
THREE SIGNIFICANT PLAYERS IN
YOUR ASIA WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SEE AMERICAN INFLUENCE
DIMINUTE SHALLED AND THE
POST-COLD WAR ORDER IN
EURASIA ALTERED
SIGNIFICANTLY.
THEY'RE ALL MAKING PROGRESS
RIGHT NOW.
THEY'RE ALL PUSHING TO THE
LIMITS.
AND I'M NOT SURE THAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS YET SORT
OF COME TO TERMS WITH THE
NATURE OF A MUCH BIGGER
FOREIGN POLICY CHALLENGE,
THAN MAYBE THEY HOPE WE'RE
FACING.
>> WALTER RUSSELL MEAD,
NICHOLAS BURNS, THANK YOU
BOTH SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: THANKSGIVING WEEK
IS NATURALLY A TIME WHEN CLOSER
ATTENTION IS PAID TO THE ROLE OF
FOOD IN OUR DAILY LIVES,
INCLUDING CONCERNS OVER HOW WE
GET IT, THE COST AND NUTRITIONAL
VALUE, AND WHY SOME DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH TO EAT.
WE'LL BE LOOKING AT SOME OF
THOSE ISSUES THROUGHOUT THIS
WEEK.
STARTING TONIGHT, WITH A REPORT
ON THE IMPACT OF CHANGES TO THE
FOOD STAMP PROGRAM.
THE "NEWSHOUR'S" MARY JO BROOKS
FILED THIS STORY FROM COLORADO.
>> Reporter: 24-YEAR-OLD ANGIE
MOGAKA, SPENDS A LOT OF TIME,
SHOPPING AND PREPARING FOOD FOR
HER TWO YOUNG DAUGHRS ITEN
DENVER.
SIX MONTHS AGO, SHE WAS FORCED
TO QUIT HER JOB TO CARE FOR HER
MOTHER.
GROCERIES, SO SHE APPLIED FOR
THE FEDERAL PROGRAM KNOWN AS
"SNAP"-- THE SUPPLEMENTAL
NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM,
WHICH GAVE HER THE MAXIMUM
BENEFIT FOR A FAMILY OF THREE:
$526 A MONTH.
>> THINGS HAPPEN IN PEOPLES
LIVES WHERE YOU HAVE NO OTHER
RESOURCES.
NOWHERE ELSE TO GO.
NOTHING TO FALL BACK ON.
EVERYONE COMES TO POINA T IN
THEIR LIFE WHERE THEY NEED HELP.
THAT'S WHERE I AM RIGHT NOW.
>> Reporter: BUT MAGOKA WILL
RECEIVE A LITTLE LESS HELP NOW
THAT EXTRA MONEY FROM THE
STIMULUS PROGRAM ENDED ON
NOVEMBER FIRST.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAD USED
STIMULUS MONEY TO BOOST THE SNAP
PROGRAM DURING THE RECESSION.
BUT NOW THE MONEY HAS RUN OUT.
AND EVEN FOR  MOGOKA, WHO
RECEIVES MORE THAN THE AVERAGE
RECIPIENT, $20 LESS A MONTH
MEANS A LOT.
>> $20 IS MILK FOR A MONTH.
OR $20 IS MEAT FOR TWO MEALS.
$20 DOESN'T SOUND LIKE A LOT.
BUT IT IS A LOT.
IT'S A MEAL.
IT'S MILK.
IT'S MEAT.
IT'S VEGETABLES.
AND EVERY LITTLE BIT HELPS.
>> Reporter: TO MAKE UP THE
DIFFERENCE, MOGAKA WENT TO METRO
CARE RING, A NON-PROFIT
ORGANIZATION THAT PROVIDES FRESH
PRODUCE, GROCERIES AND NUTRITION
COUNSELING FREE OF CHARGE.
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE NEEDING
THAT HELP HAS SKY ROCKETED,
ACCORDING TO DIRECTOR LYNNE
BUTLER.
>> IT'S STAGGERING.
SINCE NOVEMBER 1, WE HAVE SEEN
AN INCREASE IN NEED.
WE'VE SEEN LONG, LONGER LINES AT
OUR FACILITY.
AND IT'S NOT JUST BECAUSE OF THE
HOLIDAY SEASON UPCOMING.
WE'RE CERTAIN ITS BECAUSE OF THE
DECREASE IN BENEFITS.
SINCE NOV 1, THE LINES HAVE BEEN
DOWN THE BLOCK.
>> Reporter: FROM 2008 TO 2012,
THE RECESSION AND WEAK RECOVERY
LED MORE PEOPLE THAN EVER BEREFO
TO APPLY FOR FOOD ASSISTANCE.
IN COLORADO, THE NUMBER OF
INDIVIDUALS RECEIVING SNAP
BENEFITS DOUBLED TO 511,000
PEOPLE OR 10% OF THE POPULATION.
NATIONALLY THE NUMBER GREW FROM
28 TO 48 MILLION PEOPLE OR 15%
OF ALL AMERICANS.
THAT RAPID RATE OF GROWTH HAS
SLOWED A BIT THIS YEAR AS THE
ECONOMY IMPROVED.
BUT THE SNAP PROGRAM STILL COSTS
$80 BILLION A YEAR AND HAS
BECOME THE TARGET OF REPUBLICAN
BUDGET CUTTERS IN WASHINGTON.
AS PART OF THE FARM BILL, HOUSE
MEMBERS VOTED TO CUT $40 BILLION
FROM THE PROGRAM OVER THE NEXT
TEN YEARS.
THE SENATE VOTED TO CUT $4
BILLION.
SO THE BILL IS NOW STALLED.
REPUBLICANS SAY THE FOOD STAMP
PROGRAM HAS BALLOONED OUT OF
CONTROL GIVING BENEFITS TO
PEOPLE WHO DON'T DESERVE THEM.
THIS SUMMER, SOME LAWMAKERS
SEIZED ON A REPORT BY FOX NEWS
ABOUT A 29-YEAR-OLD UNEMPLOYED
SURFER IN CALIFORNIA WHO USED
FOOD STAMP BENEFITS TO BUY
LOBSTER.
IT'S AN IMAGE THAT CHEREE
CARRIGAN SAYS IS FAR FROM THE
KIND OF LIFE SHE LEADS.
A SINGLE MOTHER OF TWO TEENS,
CARRIGAN BEGAN RECEIVING
BENEFITS WHEN SHE WENT BACK TO
COLLEGE.
SHE'S NOW WORKING ON A MASTERS
DEGREE A VOLNDUNTEERS 20 HOURS A
WEEK AT METRO CARING.
SHE SAYS SHE'S VERY CAREFUL
ABOUT THE GROCERIES SHE BUYS AND
STILL THE GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
DON'T COVER EVERYTHING.
>> WE USUALLY RUN OUT ABOUT A
WEEK BEFORE THEY RELOAD.
SO OUR LAST WEEK OF THE MONTH IS
USUALLY PRETTY TIGHT ON WHAT
WERE EATING.
WE HAVE TO BE MUCH MORE CAREFUL.
AND WE'RE CAREFUL TO BEGIN WITH.
WE'RE BUDGET SHOPPERS.
>> Reporter: MOST REPUBLICANS
DON'T DISPUTE STATISTICS THAT
SHOW TWO THIRDS OF RECIPIENTS
ARE CHILDREN, THE ELDERLY OR
DISABLED.
BUT THEY SAY THERE ARE OVER
THREE MILLION ADULTS WHO GET
BENEFITS WHO ARE ABLE BODIED AND
SHOULD WORK.
CUTTING BENEFITS TO THOSE
PEOPLE, THEY SAY, COULD SAVE THE
PROGRAM $2 BILLION A YEAR.
REPRESENTATIVE TIM HUELSKAMP IS
A REPUBLICAN FROM KANSAS.
>> WE BELIEVE IN PRODUCTIVITY.
WE THINK IT'S GOOD FOR THE TAX-
PAYERS.
BUT MOST IMPORTANTLY, ITS BETTER
FOR THE PEOPLE GETTING BENEFITS.
NOW MOST PEOPLE WOULDN'T BE IN
THIS CATEGORY OF ABLE-BODIED
ADULTS.
BUT THERE ARE 3.5 MILLION
AMERICANS THAT FIT THIS CATEGORY
AND WERE JUST EXPECTING THEM TO
LOOK FOR A JOB.
BECAUSE IN MY AREA, IF YOU LOOK
FOR AOB,  JYOU'RE GOING TO FIND
ONE.
>> Reporter: HUELSKAMP SAYS
TIGHTENING RESTRICTIONS
INCLUDING ELIGIBILITY WILL HELP
REDUCE LONGTERM DENDEPENCY ON
THE ENTITLEMENT PROGRAM.
>> WHAT I'M PROPOSING ARE SOME
ACTUAL POLICY CHANGES THAT WOULD
PROBABLY REDUCE SPENDING.
SOME OF THE WELFARE REFORM
PROPOSALS THAT WORKED WELL, THAT
BILL CLINTON SIGNED INTO LAW IN
THE MID-90S, TO APPLY THOSE AND
MAINTAIN THOSE FOR FOODSTAMPS.
>> Reporter: BUT KATHY UNDERHILL
OF HUNGER FREE COLORADO BRISTLES
AT THE NOTION THAT THE PROGRAM
ENCOURAGES DEPENDENCY.
>> WHAT THE DATA SHOWS US IS
THAT THE AVERAGE LENGTH OF
PARTICIPATION IN E SNTHAP
PROGRAM IS TEN MONTHS.
SO IT'S CERTAINLY A SAFETY NET,
NOT A HAMMOCK.
>> Reporter: HER ORGANIZATION
ACTS AS A CLEARINGHOUSE FOR
PEOPLE WHO HAVE EXHAUSTED THEIR
FOOD BENEFITS AND NEED ADVICE ON
WHERE TO TURN.
UNDERHILL SAYS THERE'S BEEN A
SPIKE IN CALLS SINCE THE
NOVEMBER 1 BENEFITS REDUCTION,
BUT THAT PALES IN COMPARISON TO
WHAT THEY WOULD SEE IF THE
LARGER CUTS GET PASSED.
>> IT WOULD REALLY CHANGE THE
ENTIRE LANDSCAPE OF HUNGER IN
AMERICA IF THE $40 BILLION CUTS
WENT THROUGH.
YOU'D BE LOOKING AT THE
PREVALENCE OF HUNGER AND
MALNUTRITION SPIKING INCREDIBLY.
BUT YOU ALSO HAVE TO LOOK AT THE
ECONOMIC IMPACT.
TALK TO GROCERS AND YOU'LL FIND
OUT THAT MEANS THEY NEED FEWER
EMPLOYEES, THEY NEED TO PURCHASE
FEWER PRODUCTS, AND FEWER TRUCKS
MOVING THAT PRODUCT.
IT HAS THIS WHOLE RIPPLING
EFFECT THAT WOULD BE PROFOUND.
>> Reporter: THE LAWMAKERS ON
CAPITOL HILL WHO WILL DETERMINE
THE SIZE OF THE NEXT ROUND OF
CUTS WILL RESUME THEIR WKOR
AFTER THE THANKSGIVING BREAK.
IN THE MEANTIME, ANGIE MOGAKA IS
BRACING FOR A LEANER HOLIDAY
SEASON THIS YEAR.
>> Ifill: FOUR SENATORS SHARE A
HOUSE ON CAPITOL HILL IN
WASHINGTON: A LITTLE REALITY,
A LOT OF FICTION.
CARTOONIST GARRY TRUDEAU
EXPLORES THAT PREMISE IN "ALPHA
HOUSE", AMAZON'S THE FIRST
STREAMING SERIES.
IT FEATURES JOHN GOODMAN AS
REPUBLICAN SENATOR GIL JOHN
BRIGGS, A LAWMAKER RUNNING FOR
RE-ELECTION WHO, AS IT HAPPENS,
IS NOT EXACTLY KEEN ON JOINING
HIS COLLEAGUES ON A TRIP TO
AFGHANISTAN.
>> WHOEVER PUT THAT ON MY
SCHEDULE IS ABOUT TO HAVE A
GOOD DAY, WHAT A WASTE OF
TIME, DO I LOOK LIKE
SOMEBODY PREPARED TO FLY
TO-- FOR THE NATIONAL
COMMITTEE.
>> DOW NOT, YOU LOOK LIKE
SOMEONE PREPARED TO FLY TO
PHILLIE FOR ITS WORLD
SERIES.
>> YOU GET ME, I WILL GIVE
YOU THAT.
MY WIFE, WHAT.
>> YOU'RE GOING THE
DELEGATION TO OF A BEGAN
STAND, RIGHT, TJ?
>> WHY WOULD I DO THAT,
MADDIE?
>> BECAUSE, A FULL BRIGADE
OF NORTH CAROLINA GUARDS
ROTATED OVER THERE LAST
WEEK.
>> WHAT, THEY KNOW I SUPPORT
THEM.
I WILL MAKE A VIDEO.
>> GIL JOHN EVERYTHING IS
CHANGED.
>> CHANGED, HOW CHANGE.
>> TAYLOR HAD ANOTHER STROKE,
WE DRAW-- WITHDREW FROM THE
RACE?
>> WHAT?
THAT'S GOOD?
WELL, NOT FOR HIM,
OBVIOUSLY.
BUT-- THAT'S AN OUTSTANDING
DEVELOPMENT.
>> WRONG, HONEY BEAR.
GUESS WHO JUST ANNOUNCED
HE'S RUNNING?
>>.
>> WHO.
>> DICKER MANCUSEY.
>> YOU'RE IN A REAL RACE NOW,
YOU CAN'T SIT IN YOUR MAN
CAVE ANY MORE WAITING TO BE
RE-ELECTED
>> Ifill: JEFFREY BROWN PICKS UP
THE STORY FROM THERE.
>> Brown: THE CREATOR OF
"ALPHA HOUSE" IS GARRY TRUDEAU,
BEST KNOWN FOR HIS LONG-RUNNING
"DOONESBURY" COMIC STRIP.
HE TOOK A BREAK FROM THE STRIP
TO WORK ON THE NEW SERIES.
>> GLAD TO BE BACK.
>> Brown: IT IS ALMOST TOO
EASY TO MAKE FUN OF
WASHINGTON S IT NOT?
WHAT WERE YOU UP TO HERE?
WHAT DID YOU THINK YOU COULD
BRING TO THE PARTY?
>> WELL, IT'S A DIFFERENT
MEDIUM ENTOIRELY FROM WHAT
I'M ACCUSTOMED TO.
OBVIOUSLY I'VE WRITTEN ABOUT
POLITICS OFF AND ON FOR 40
YEARS.
I THINK THERE IS A BIT OF A
MISPERCEPTION AS TO HOW MUCH
I WRITE ABOUT POLITICS, THAT
DOONSBURRY IS SOMEHOW A
ROLLING CRITIQUE, A ROLLING
PROGRESSIVE CRITIQUE OF
POLITICAL PARKER WHEN IN
FACT IT IS ACTUALLY A SMALL
PERCENTAGE OF WHAT I DO IN
THE STRIP BUT THIS TIME-- IS
VERY FOCUSED.
RIGHT THERE ON CAPITOL HILL.
ALTHOUGH ALL OUR EPISODES
WERE SHOT IN QUEENSMENT BUT
NONETHELESS WE TRIED TO
CAPTURE THE SPIRIT AND FEEL,
LOOK AND FEEL OF A CERTAIN
CULTURE.
SOME YEARS BACK, IN THE
PREVIOUS ELECTION CYCLE, IN
2008, I SAW A PIECE ABOUT
THESE FOUR SENATORS WHO
SHARED A HOUSE UP ON CAPITOL
HILL.
AND THAT SEEMED LIKE A
WONDERFUL PREMISE FOR A TV
SHOW AND SO I WROTE A PILOT.
SCHUMER SAID-- I THINK IT
WAS SENATOR SCHUMER WHO WAS
ONE OF THE FOUR OR DURBIN
WHO SAID WELL PEOPLE ALWAYS
SAID THEY'RE GOING TO MAKE A
TV SHOW ABOUT IT.
THEN THEY REMEMBER THAT IT'S
ABOUT FOUR MIDDLE
AND THEY WOULD LOSE
INTERESTMENT WE GOT AROUND
THAT PROBLEM BY ADDING SEX
AND ADDING VIOLENCE AND
THAT-- .
>> Brown: AN MAKING THEM
REPUBLICAN.
>> AND MAKING THEM
>> Brown: SO LET ME ASK YOU
REPUBLICAN.
ABOUT THAT.
>> Brown: SO LET ME ASK YOU
THE ORIGINAL, IN REALITY THE
ABOUT THAT.
FOUR WERE DEMOCRATS.
THE ORIGINAL, IN REALITY THE
>> I HAD THEM REPUBLICANS
FOUR WERE DEMOCRATS.
FROM THE START.
>> I HAD THEM REPUBLICANS
>> Brown: WHY IS THAT?
FROM THE START.
>> I WANTED AT THE TIME
>> Brown: WHY IS THAT?
WHICH WAS 2008, I WANTED TO
>> I WANTED AT THE TIME
KIND OF LOOK INTO THE LIVES
WHICH WAS 2008, I WANTED TO
OF THESE FOUR REPUBLICANS
KIND OF LOOK INTO THE LIVES
WHO WERE GOING TO BE DEALING
OF THESE FOUR REPUBLICANS
WITH THE AFTERMATH OF THE
WHO WERE GOING TO BE DEALING
BUSH PRESIDENCY.
WITH THE AFTERMATH OF THE
AND WHAT THAT MEANT FOR THE
BUSH PRESIDENCY.
PARTY.
AND WHAT THAT MEANT FOR THE
BECAUSE THE DEMOCRATS ARE
PARTY.
COMING ON STRONG.
BECAUSE THE DEMOCRATS ARE
THEY HAD A VERY INTERESTING
COMING ON STRONG.
LIVELY CAMPAIGN WITH OBAMA
THEY HAD A VERY INTERESTING
AND CLINTON AND IN FACT THEY
LIVELY CAMPAIGN WITH OBAMA
WON.
AND CLINTON AND IN FACT THEY
AND THERE WAS QUITE A SHIFT
WON.
ON THE HILL.
AND THERE WAS QUITE A SHIFT
SO I THOUGHT WELL LET'S SEE
ON THE HILL.
WHAT THOSE GUYS ARE LIKE IN
SO I THOUGHT WELL LET'S SEE
THE MIDDLE OF A DIFFICULT
WHAT THOSE GUYS ARE LIKE IN
TIME.
THE MIDDLE OF A DIFFICULT
BECAUSE THOSE ARE WHERE THE
TIME.
STORIES ARE.
BECAUSE THOSE ARE WHERE THE
I FINE THEM IN ADVERSITY.
STORIES ARE.
THE FIRST SHOW I DID WHICH
I FINE THEM IN ADVERSITY.
WAS ABOUT 25 YEARS AGO WAS
THE FIRST SHOW I DID WHICH
FOR HBO, WAS CALLED TANNER
WAS ABOUT 25 YEARS AGO WAS
88.
FOR HBO, WAS CALLED TANNER
IT WAS ABOUT A DEMOCRAT AT
88.
THE TIME WHEN DEMOCRATS WERE
IT WAS ABOUT A DEMOCRAT AT
IN DISARRAY.
THE TIME WHEN DEMOCRATS WERE
HE WAS AN OLD SCHOOL LIBERAL
IN DISARRAY.
WHO TRIED TO REDEFINE
HE WAS AN OLD SCHOOL LIBERAL
HIMSELF BY BASICALLY TURNING
WHO TRIED TO REDEFINE
UP THE VOLUME.
HIMSELF BY BASICALLY TURNING
>> BUT THAT'S A SERIOUS
UP THE VOLUME.
SUBJECT.
>> BUT THAT'S A SERIOUS
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AFTER
SUBJECT.
THE BUSH YEARS AND
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AFTER
AFTER-- IN THE OBAMA.
THE BUSH YEARS AND
AN ONE WE TALK ABOUT ON THIS
AFTER-- IN THE OBAMA.
PROGRAM ALL THE TIME.
AN ONE WE TALK ABOUT ON THIS
>> RIGHT.
PROGRAM ALL THE TIME.
>> IN A SERIOUS WAY.
>> RIGHT.
BUT SOMETHING VERY
>> IN A SERIOUS WAY.
INTERESTING HAPPENED IN
BUT SOMETHING VERY
THOSE FOUR YEARS SINCE THEN
INTERESTING HAPPENED IN
WHICH IS THAT THEY WER
THOSE FOUR YEARS SINCE THEN
WERE-- WITHERING UNDER ALL
WHICH IS THAT THEY WER
THIS FIRE FROM THE LEFT AND
WERE-- WITHERING UNDER ALL
SUDDENLY IT'S ALL COMING
THIS FIRE FROM THE LEFT AND
FROM THE RIGHT.
SUDDENLY IT'S ALL COMING
AND THAT'S WHAT IS SO
FROM THE RIGHT.
DIFFERENT AND FASCINATING.
AND THAT'S WHAT IS SO
SO AS PRIMARY TURNED FROM A
DIFFERENT AND FASCINATING.
KNOWN INTO A VERB OVER THE
SO AS PRIMARY TURNED FROM A
LAST FEW YEARS.
KNOWN INTO A VERB OVER THE
BUT WOW, WHAT IF THESE GUYS,
LAST FEW YEARS.
THEIR WHOLE WORLD IS SHAKEN
BUT WOW, WHAT IF THESE GUYS,
UP BY ATTACKS FROM THEIR
THEIR WHOLE WORLD IS SHAKEN
RIGHT, WHERE THEY LEAST
UP BY ATTACKS FROM THEIR
EXPECTED TO SEE IT.
RIGHT, WHERE THEY LEAST
THAT THE WASHINGTON THEY
EXPECTED TO SEE IT.
KNEW, BECAUSE THEY HAVE ALL
THAT THE WASHINGTON THEY
BEEN IN WASHINGTON FOR SOME
KNEW, BECAUSE THEY HAVE ALL
TIME.
BEEN IN WASHINGTON FOR SOME
>> Brown: YOUR MAIN
TIME.
CHARACTERS, WHAT YOU WOULD
>> Brown: YOUR MAIN
CALL MAINSTREAM REPUBLICANS.
CHARACTERS, WHAT YOU WOULD
>> RIGHT, MAINSTREAM
CALL MAINSTREAM REPUBLICANS.
CONSERVATIVES.
>> RIGHT, MAINSTREAM
AND SO THEY'RE USED TO A
CONSERVATIVES.
POLITICAL CULTURE OF
AND SO THEY'RE USED TO A
ACCOMMODATION AND CIVILITY.
POLITICAL CULTURE OF
AND SUDDENLY THEY'RE IN TED
ACCOMMODATION AND CIVILITY.
CRUZ'S AMERICA.
AND SUDDENLY THEY'RE IN TED
AND THINGS ARE VERY
CRUZ'S AMERICA.
DIFFERENT.
AND THINGS ARE VERY
AND THEY DON'T
DIFFERENT.
QUITE-- THEY'VE LOST THEIR
AND THEY DON'T
BEARINGS.
QUITE-- THEY'VE LOST THEIR
SO THEY HAVE TO KEEP SORT OF
BEARINGS.
TRIMMING THEIR SAILS AND NOW
SO THEY HAVE TO KEEP SORT OF
THEY ARE IN UNCHARTED
TRIMMING THEIR SAILS AND NOW
WATERS.
THEY ARE IN UNCHARTED
AND THAT'S INTERESTING TO
WATERS.
ME.
AND THAT'S INTERESTING TO
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE WHO ARE
ME.
CAUGHT IN CRISIS FROM A
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE WHO ARE
STORY TELLING POINT OF VIEW.
CAUGHT IN CRISIS FROM A
NOT SIMPLY BECAUSE I HAVE
STORY TELLING POINT OF VIEW.
SOME AGENDA THAT I NEED TO
NOT SIMPLY BECAUSE I HAVE
ACT OUT ON.
SOME AGENDA THAT I NEED TO
>> Brown: HOW DOES THIS
ACT OUT ON.
COMPARE TO YOUR DOONSBURRY
>> Brown: HOW DOES THIS
WORK BOTH IN TERMS OF THE
COMPARE TO YOUR DOONSBURRY
WAY YOU WORK, FOR ONE THING
WORK BOTH IN TERMS OF THE
I GUESS IT'S A GROUP THING
WAY YOU WORK, FOR ONE THING
AS OPPOSED TO SITTING ALONE
I GUESS IT'S A GROUP THING
IN YOUR ROOM, RIGHT.
AS OPPOSED TO SITTING ALONE
WHICH I HAVE SEEN IN YOUR
IN YOUR ROOM, RIGHT.
STUDIO, YOU KNOW, ARE YOU
WHICH I HAVE SEEN IN YOUR
WORKING AWAY BY YOURSELF.
STUDIO, YOU KNOW, ARE YOU
>> IT'S JUST ME.
WORKING AWAY BY YOURSELF.
MY WHOLE LIFE I'VE HAD A
>> IT'S JUST ME.
HANDFUL OF PART-TIME
MY WHOLE LIFE I'VE HAD A
EMPLOYEES AND SUDDENLY I A
HANDFUL OF PART-TIME
AM-- I'VE GOT 120 TEAMMATES.
EMPLOYEES AND SUDDENLY I A
THAT'S VERY DIFFERENT,
AM-- I'VE GOT 120 TEAMMATES.
OBVIOUSLY.
THAT'S VERY DIFFERENT,
AND YOU HAVE CERTAIN
OBVIOUSLY.
RESPONSIBILITIES WHEN
AND YOU HAVE CERTAIN
SOMEBODY LIKE A JEFF BEZOS
RESPONSIBILITIES WHEN
FROM AMAZON BASICALLY HANDS
SOMEBODY LIKE A JEFF BEZOS
YOU A MEDIUM SIZE
FROM AMAZON BASICALLY HANDS
CORPORATION AND SAYS DON'T
YOU A MEDIUM SIZE
MESS IT UP.
CORPORATION AND SAYS DON'T
SO THAT WAS A MAJOR CHANGE
MESS IT UP.
FOR ME.
SO THAT WAS A MAJOR CHANGE
ALTHOUGH HI WORKED IN
FOR ME.
TELEVISION.
ALTHOUGH HI WORKED IN
HI DONE SOME PILOTS AND I
TELEVISION.
WORKED ON A COUPLE SERIES.
HI DONE SOME PILOTS AND I
>> Brown: THIS OF COURSE IS
WORKED ON A COUPLE SERIES.
SOMETHING WE'VE LOOKED AT ON
>> Brown: THIS OF COURSE IS
THE SHOW.
SOMETHING WE'VE LOOKED AT ON
THIS IS A NEW MODEL OF
THE SHOW.
TELEVISION.
THIS IS A NEW MODEL OF
AMAZON TAKING THIS ON,
TELEVISION.
STREAMING VIDEO, RIGHT,
AMAZON TAKING THIS ON,
DIGITAL.
STREAMING VIDEO, RIGHT,
IT'S NOT TURN ON YOUR
DIGITAL.
TELEVISION.
IT'S NOT TURN ON YOUR
>> NO, AND I HAD SOME
TELEVISION.
SERIOUS MISGIVINGS ABOUT
>> NO, AND I HAD SOME
THAT.
SERIOUS MISGIVINGS ABOUT
WHEN I WAS FIRST APPROACHED
THAT.
BY MY PARTNER JOHN ALTER
WHEN I WAS FIRST APPROACHED
ABOUT TAKING IT TO AM ZON HI
BY MY PARTNER JOHN ALTER
SOME PRETTY SERIOUS
ABOUT TAKING IT TO AM ZON HI
MISGIVINGS.
SOME PRETTY SERIOUS
I THOUGHT WELL EVERYTHING
MISGIVINGS.
I'D SEEN, IN THE WORLD OF
I THOUGHT WELL EVERYTHING
WebTV HAD NOT BEEN VERY
I'D SEEN, IN THE WORLD OF
IMPRESSIVE.
WebTV HAD NOT BEEN VERY
IT HAD BEEN UNDERRESOURCED.
IMPRESSIVE.
AND MY ASSOCIATION WAS WITH
IT HAD BEEN UNDERRESOURCED.
YOU TOUB VIDEOS, NOT SERIOUS
AND MY ASSOCIATION WAS WITH
HIGH END EPISODIC
YOU TOUB VIDEOS, NOT SERIOUS
PROGRAMMING.
HIGH END EPISODIC
SO THERE BEING NO MODEL FOR
PROGRAMMING.
THAT I WAS A LITTLE
SO THERE BEING NO MODEL FOR
SKEPTICAL.
THAT I WAS A LITTLE
THEN ALONG CAME HOUSE OF
SKEPTICAL.
CARDS.
THEN ALONG CAME HOUSE OF
AND A LOT OF OTHER PLAYERS
CARDS.
GOT INTO THAT PARTICULAR
AND A LOT OF OTHER PLAYERS
SPACE.
GOT INTO THAT PARTICULAR
AND I'M GOING WOW, THIS IS
SPACE.
BEGINNING TO HAPPEN.
AND I'M GOING WOW, THIS IS
THERE -- PEOPLE ARE
BEGINNING TO HAPPEN.
COMMITTING SOME PRETTY
THERE -- PEOPLE ARE
SERIOUS BUDGETS TO THESE
COMMITTING SOME PRETTY
PROJECTS.
SERIOUS BUDGETS TO THESE
IT'S ATTRACTING HIGH END
PROJECTS.
TALENT.
IT'S ATTRACTING HIGH END
IT'S ATTRACTING VERY GOOD
TALENT.
PEOPLE.
IT'S ATTRACTING VERY GOOD
WHY NOT JUMP IN.
PEOPLE.
AND TAKE A CHANCE.
WHY NOT JUMP IN.
>> YOU RAISE A HOUSE OF
AND TAKE A CHANCE.
CARDS.
>> YOU RAISE A HOUSE OF
I WANT TO ASK YOU
CARDS.
ABOUT-- YOU'VE BEEN AT THIS
I WANT TO ASK YOU
A LONG TIME LOOKING AT
ABOUT-- YOU'VE BEEN AT THIS
WASHINGTON IN ONE FORM OR
A LONG TIME LOOKING AT
ANOTHER.
WASHINGTON IN ONE FORM OR
WHAT IS THE-- WHAT DO YOU
ANOTHER.
THINK OF THE STATE OF
WHAT IS THE-- WHAT DO YOU
POLITICAL, WELL, SATTIRE,
THINK OF THE STATE OF
THE STATE OF CREED OF PEOPLE
POLITICAL, WELL, SATTIRE,
LOOKING AT WASHINGTON?
THE STATE OF CREED OF PEOPLE
>> I THINK IT'S NEVER
LOOKING AT WASHINGTON?
BETTER.
>> I THINK IT'S NEVER
>> Brown: NEVER BEEN BETTER.
BETTER.
>> YEAH, NEVER BEING MORE
>> Brown: NEVER BEEN BETTER.
INTERESTING.
>> YEAH, NEVER BEING MORE
AND THEY ARE SUCH GOOD
INTERESTING.
TALENTED VOICES, JON STEWART
AND THEY ARE SUCH GOOD
AND STEPHEN COLBERT AND ON
TALENTED VOICES, JON STEWART
AND ON.
AND STEPHEN COLBERT AND ON
IT'S-- THERE'S A LOT GOING
AND ON.
ON.
IT'S-- THERE'S A LOT GOING
AND I HAVE FAR MORE
ON.
COMPETITION THAN I DID WHEN
AND I HAVE FAR MORE
I FIRST STARTED OUT.
COMPETITION THAN I DID WHEN
I PRETTY MUCH HAD THE FIELD
I FIRST STARTED OUT.
TO MYSELF.
I PRETTY MUCH HAD THE FIELD
THERE WERE A FEW LATE NIGHT
TO MYSELF.
COMICS WHO WERE DOING RAPID
THERE WERE A FEW LATE NIGHT
RESPONSE HUMMER.
COMICS WHO WERE DOING RAPID
BUT IT WAS HUMOR, IT WASN'T
RESPONSE HUMMER.
REALLY IS A TIRE, IT WAS
BUT IT WAS HUMOR, IT WASN'T
VERY GENTLE.
REALLY IS A TIRE, IT WAS
SO PROBABLY THE REASON I DID
VERY GENTLE.
AS WELL AS I DID IN THE
SO PROBABLY THE REASON I DID
EARLY PART OF MY CAREER IS
AS WELL AS I DID IN THE
JUST THROUGH SHEER NOVELTY,
EARLY PART OF MY CAREER IS
NOW THERE IS A WHOLE
JUST THROUGH SHEER NOVELTY,
UNIVERSE OF WONDERFUL
NOW THERE IS A WHOLE
POLITICAL SAT FIRE.
UNIVERSE OF WONDERFUL
>> Brown: OKAY, THE NEW
POLITICAL SAT FIRE.
SERIES, IS ALPHA HOUSE,
>> Brown: OKAY, THE NEW
GARRY TRUDEAU, THANK YOU SO
SERIES, IS ALPHA HOUSE,
MUCH.
GARRY TRUDEAU, THANK YOU SO
>> THANK YOU, JEFF.
MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO AN UPDATE
>> THANK YOU, JEFF.
FROM THE BIRTHPLACE OF THE ARAB
>> Woodruff: NOW TO AN UPDATE
SPRING-- TUNISIA.
FROM THE BIRTHPLACE OF THE ARAB
THE NORTH AFRICAN NATION HAS
SPRING-- TUNISIA.
STRUGGLED WITH DEMOCRACY SINCE
THE NORTH AFRICAN NATION HAS
THE OUSTER OF ITS FORMER LEADER
STRUGGLED WITH DEMOCRACY SINCE
NEARLY THREE YEARS AGO.
THE OUSTER OF ITS FORMER LEADER
THAT STRUGGLE IS NOT UNIQUE
NEARLY THREE YEARS AGO.
AMONG THE REGION'S NEW
THAT STRUGGLE IS NOT UNIQUE
DEMOCRACIES, BUT ITS ATTEMPT TO
AMONG THE REGION'S NEW
RIGHT ITS COURSE IS WITHOUT
DEMOCRACIES, BUT ITS ATTEMPT TO
PRECEDENT IN THE NEW ARAB WORLD.
RIGHT ITS COURSE IS WITHOUT
PRODUCER JESSIE DEETER RECENTLY
PRECEDENT IN THE NEW ARAB WORLD.
VISITED THE COUNTRY AND FILED
PRODUCER JESSIE DEETER RECENTLY
THIS REPORT, NARRATED BY HARI
VISITED THE COUNTRY AND FILED
SREENIVASAN.
THIS REPORT, NARRATED BY HARI
>> WHEN I USED TO PRAY, THEY
SREENIVASAN.
WOULD STOP ME AND TAKE MY
>> WHEN I USED TO PRAY, THEY
TAXI PERMITMENT BUT NOW THEY
WOULD STOP ME AND TAKE MY
GIVE ITING BA.
TAXI PERMITMENT BUT NOW THEY
AND I WENT BACK TO WORK.
GIVE ITING BA.
THERE IS THE ONLY THING I
AND I WENT BACK TO WORK.
GAINED FROM THE REVOLUTION.
THERE IS THE ONLY THING I
>> ANISE SUFFERED UNDER
GAINED FROM THE REVOLUTION.
FORMER PRESIDENT'S DICK
>> ANISE SUFFERED UNDER
STATERSHIP IN TUNESIA WHEN
FORMER PRESIDENT'S DICK
MUSLIMS WERE NOT ALLOWED TO
STATERSHIP IN TUNESIA WHEN
SHOW OUTWARD SIGNS OF THEIR
MUSLIMS WERE NOT ALLOWED TO
FAITH, INCLUDING WEARING
SHOW OUTWARD SIGNS OF THEIR
HEAD SCARFS.
FAITH, INCLUDING WEARING
NOW LIKE MANY TON ESIANS
HEAD SCARFS.
HE'S STILL SEARCHING FOR THE
NOW LIKE MANY TON ESIANS
GREAT PROMISE OFFERED BY THE
HE'S STILL SEARCHING FOR THE
REVOLUTION THAT KICKED OFF
GREAT PROMISE OFFERED BY THE
THE ARAB SPRING NEARLY THREE
REVOLUTION THAT KICKED OFF
YEARS AGO.
THE ARAB SPRING NEARLY THREE
>> AN UNEMPLOYED SEAMSTRESS
YEARS AGO.
WHO HAD HIGH HOPES AFTER THE
>> AN UNEMPLOYED SEAMSTRESS
REVOLUTION BUT HAS BECOME
WHO HAD HIGH HOPES AFTER THE
DISILLUSIONED WITH THE PARTY
REVOLUTION BUT HAS BECOME
SHE HELPED VOTE INTO POWER.
DISILLUSIONED WITH THE PARTY
>> MY WISH THAT TUNESIA
SHE HELPED VOTE INTO POWER.
WOULD STOP AND GO BACK TO
>> MY WISH THAT TUNESIA
THE WAY WE LIVED BEFORE.
WOULD STOP AND GO BACK TO
LIFE HAS GOTTEN MORE
THE WAY WE LIVED BEFORE.
EXPENSIVE, TOO EXPENSIVE.
LIFE HAS GOTTEN MORE
THE POPULATION CAN'T HANDLE
EXPENSIVE, TOO EXPENSIVE.
FREEDOM.
THE POPULATION CAN'T HANDLE
IT'S TRUE.
FREEDOM.
I SWEAR TO GOD, LOOK WHAT
IT'S TRUE.
FREEDOM HAS DONE, WHERE IT'S
I SWEAR TO GOD, LOOK WHAT
TAKEN US.
FREEDOM HAS DONE, WHERE IT'S
>> Reporter: TUNESIA'S
TAKEN US.
REVOLUTION GAVE HOPE TO THE
>> Reporter: TUNESIA'S
REST OF THE REGION.
REVOLUTION GAVE HOPE TO THE
THE DEMOCRACY WAS POSSIBLE,
REST OF THE REGION.
BUT THE TRANSITION FROM
THE DEMOCRACY WAS POSSIBLE,
DECADES OF AUTHORITARIAN
BUT THE TRANSITION FROM
RULE REMAINS DIFFICULT.
DECADES OF AUTHORITARIAN
OVER THE SUMMER LIBERAL
RULE REMAINS DIFFICULT.
POLITICIAN WAS ASSASSINATED
OVER THE SUMMER LIBERAL
IT WAS THE SECOND MIRD OF A
POLITICIAN WAS ASSASSINATED
POLITICAL FIGURE IN A YEAR.
IT WAS THE SECOND MIRD OF A
THE KILLING COMBINED WITH
POLITICAL FIGURE IN A YEAR.
FRUSTRATION OVER HIGH
THE KILLING COMBINED WITH
UNEMPLOYMENT AND SECURITY
FRUSTRATION OVER HIGH
CONCERNS SET OFF A
UNEMPLOYMENT AND SECURITY
FOR THE RULING PARTY TO
DISSOLVE GOVERNMENT.
>> THEY HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO
ACHIEVE THE GOALS OF THE
REVOLUTION.
IN OTHER WORDS, THE
UNEMPLOYMENT, THE POVERTY
AND THE MARGINALIZED REGIONS.
>> Reporter: FORMER
TON-- TUNESIA PRIME MINISTER
HAS THE SECOND MAIN
OPPOSITION PARTY TO --
>> THERE HAVE BEEN SERIOUS
INCIDENTS, ASSASSINATIONS OF
POLITICIANS WHICH HAVE NEVER
HAPPENED BEFORE IN TUNESIA.
>> Reporter: IN AN
EXTRAORDINARY MOVE, THE
GROUP AGREED TO EXIT RATHER
THAN EXPERIENCE THE FATE OF
AN OUSTER LIKE EGYPT'S MORSI.
>> WE IN THE PARTY HAVE
ACCEPTED TO STEP DOWN FROM
THE GOVERNMENT.
WITHOUT ELECTIONS AND
WITHOUT A COUP.
WE WILL JUST WORK TOWARDS
THE TRANSITION AND TOWARDS
DEMOCRACY.
>> MONICA MARKS STUDY
TUNESIA'S POLITICAL SYSTEM
AT OXFORD UNIVERSITY.
>> THEY REALIZE THAT'S
PROBABLY THE BEST STRATEGIC
OPTION FOR THEM BECAUSE
THEY'RE SITTING AT THE HELM
OF GOVERNMENT AT A TIME OF
GREAT STRIFE.
>> WE'RE IN A SITUATION NOW
WHERE GROWTH IS VERY WEAK.
JOB CREATION IS VERY WEAK
AND THE SOCIAL TENSIONS ARE
HIGH.
>> Reporter: A FORMER
GOVERNOR OF TUNESIA'S
CENTRAL BANK FEARS THAT IF A
NEW TRANSITIONAL PRIME
MINISTER ISN'T CHOSEN SOON,
IT WILL BE HARD FORTUN ESIA
TO PULL BACK FROM THE
UPHEAVAL CREATED BY ONGOING
POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY.
>> YOU HAVE BANKING SYSTEM
UNDER PRESSURE.
A LOT OF THESE THINGS ARE
COMING NOW TO THERE AND THE
RISKS OF SOME SLIPPAGE OF
SOME SERIOUS CRISIS ARE
THERE.
>> I VOTED, THE NEXT TIME I
WILL CUT OFF HIS FINGER,
THIS FINGER THAT VOTED FOR
HIM.
>> Reporter: A SHOP OWNER,
FROM AN INDUSTRIAL TOWN IN
THE SOUTH OF TUNESIA SAYS
THAT THE GOVERNMENT HASN'T
HELPED HIM GAIN THE WORK AND
SECURITY HE SOUGHT BY MOVING
TO TUNIS.
>> BEFORE THE REVOLUTION A
WOMAN COULD GO OUT IN THE
STREET AROUND 10 OR 11:00 AT
NIGHT.
NOW, NO, BECAUSE THE COUNTRY
ISN'T SAFE.
>> THE SECURITY SITUATION
MAKES A LOT OF PEOPLE
NERVOUS.
THEY ARE USED TO THE
STABILITY OF A POLICE STATE
IN WHICH NOTHING REALLY EVER
HAPPENED.
BUT FOR AVERAGE TUNESIANS
THIS IS A SITUATION, A
FRIGHTENING SITUATION.
AND THAT KIND OF FEAR AND
INSTABILITY I THINK MAKES
PEOPLE VERY VULNERABLE TO
THESE DISCOURSES OF
STABILITY, OF AUTHORITARIANISM
BRINGING MORE STABILITY.
>> Reporter: THE MAIN ALTER
DIFFICULT TO ISLAMIST GROUP
IS-- TUNIS, A PARTY HAVING
LINKS TO THE OLD REGIME
WHICH WAS NOTORIOUS FOR
TORTURE AND CORRUPTION.
IT'S ALLEGED THAT MUCH OF
THE COUNTRY'S BUSINESS
COMMUNITY HAD DIRECT TIES TO
THE FORMER PRESIDENT.
THE LEADER SAYS THAT HE AND
HIS PARTY SHOULDN'T BE
JUDGED BY THE TRANSGRESSIONS
OF SOME IN THE PREREVOLUTION
GOVERNMENT.
>> SI HAVE BEEN IN POLITICS
SINCE MARCH 1956,
INDEPENDENCE DAY.
I WAS HERE AND I'M STILL
HERE.
BUT THE OLD REGIME ISN'T ALL
DIRTY, YOU KNOW.
THERE WERE 2 MILLION
TUNESIANS WITH BEN ALI, WE
CAN'T EXCLUDE THEM ALL.
>> Reporter: BUT THE NEW
GOVERNMENT BY ITS OWN
ADMISSION HAS NOT HELD
MEMBERS OF THE OLD GUARD
ACCOUNTABLE FOR PAST CRIMES.
>> WE HAVE FAILED IN SOME
THINGS.
WE DID NOT HOLD ACCOUNTABLE
THOSE WHO WERE CORRUPT.
AND SO THE PROTEST AGAINST
US ARE BACK BECAUSE WE WERE
NOT STRONG ENOUGH IN
PUNISHING THE CORRUPT
INDIVIDUALS.
>> THE POLITICAL OPPONENTSES
ARE IN GRIDLOCK OVER THE
COUNTRY'S FUTURE.
AND ATTEMPTS TO AGREE ON A
CARETAKER PRIME MINISTER
HAVE BEEN DELAYED.
A NEW ELECTION WON'T HAPPEN
UNTIL 6 OR 7 MONTHS AFTER
THAT LEADER IS CHOSEN.
>> WE ARE CURRENTLY
PRESSURING THEM, TO CONVINCE
THEM TO REACH A CONSENSUS IN
ORDER TO SAVE TUNESIA.
>> FROM THE UNION THAT ISIONS
BETWEEN THE TWO PARTIES IS
WORRYING ABOUT THE
CONSEQUENCES OF NOT REACHING
A DEAL.
>> IT IS CRITICAL THAT WE
AVOID A BLOODY
CONFRONTATION.
IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT WE
SUCCEED IN BRINGING BACK
SAFETY AND SOCIAL STABILITY.
IF WE DON'T FIND A SOLUTION
IN DECEMBER, IT WILL BE THE
BANKRUPTCY OF THIS REGIME.
>> THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY,ED
BODY CHARGED WITH REWRITING
THE CONSTITUTION IS MORE
THAN A YEAR PAST ITS
MANDATED DEADLINE AND MUST
WAIT UNTIL A NEW ACTING
PRIME MINISTER IS CHOSEN TO
FINISH.
BUT IT UNLIKE OTHER PARTS OF
THE GOVERNMENT, WILL NOT BE
DISSOLVED UNTIL THE
CONSTITUTION HAS BEEN
COMPLETED.
--
>> THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY
WILL REMAIN BECAUSE IT IS A
SYMBOL OF DEMOCRACY, THE
SYMBOL OF THE WILL OF PEOPLE
AND IT IS THANKS TO THIS
ASSEMBLY THAT WE WILL
GUARANTEE THE MOVEMENT OR
THE TRANSITION TO ANOTHER
PERIOD, TO AN INTRINSIC
DEMOCRACY, NEW REPUBLIC.
>> Reporter: AS DIFFICULT AS
THIS TRANSITION SEEMS
EXPERTS LIKE MONICA MARKS
ARE STILL HOPEFUL.
>> IF TUNESIA CAN PULL
THROUGH, IF PEOPLE CAN
TOGETHER WORK FOR COMPROMISE
AND HAVE THAT CREED
MENTALITY, WE'RE GOING TO
GET THROUGH THIS NO MATTER
WHAT, IT COULD BECOME THE
FIRST DEMOCRACY IN THE ARAB
WORLD.
AND NO LONGER CAN PEOPLE SAY
ARABS AREN'T READY FOR
DEMOCRACY.
>> Reporter: BUT THE LONGER
THEY WAIT FOR THE CRITICAL
NEXT STEPS, THE FURTHER AWAY
THAT DEMOCRACY BECOMES
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA DEFENDED THE
AGREEMENT TO EASE SOME
SANCTIONS, IF IRAN FREEZES MUCH
OF ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
AND AN EARLY WINTER STORM SWEPT
ACROSS TEXAS AND ARKANSAS,
HEADING EAST AND PROMISING TO
SNARL THANKSGIVING TRAVEL.
>> Ifill: ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
ONLINE RIGHT NOW: HOW SOCIAL
SECURITY DISCRIMINATES AGAINST
YOUNGER, DIVORCED PARENTS.
WE CONTINUE OUR WEEKLY SERIES ON
EVERYTHING YOU EVER WANTED TO
KNOW ABOUT YOUR BENEFITS.
THAT'S ON "MAKING SENSE."
YOU CAN FIND ALL THAT AND MORE
ON OUR WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT, HOW
CHEF PAULA WOLFERT IS COPING
WITH ALZHEIMER'S BY COOKING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.